 Recently, I interviewed for SD2 roles at some of the top tech companies like Google, Amazon, DoorDash, Databricks, Stripe, Uber, Rippling and many more. Got couple of offers, got rejection from others and learned a lot along the way. In this video series, I am going to walk you through my journey. What went well, what went wrong and constant with the offer, my preparation strategy, my composition insights and a lot more. If you are preparing for a SD2 role, I am just trying to understand how these companies hire you are at the right place. Let's get started. Hello everyone, welcome back to the channel and in this video, we are going to talk about my by-dance interview experience. But before jumping into the video, if you are new to the channel, I have posted around many interview experiences of Zepto, DoorDash, Amazon, Google, Databricks, Stripe and lot more. So do check it out. I also started my system design series and I also started one of the most interesting series is how I cracked 60 at PSD2 roles. I have put down two episodes in the reason in the mindset. Do check it out if you liked the video, do subscribe to the channel. So yeah, coming to the video, the light target of this video is around 200 plus. So we are talking about the by-dance SD2 interview experience and the CTC which by-dance provide in location Dubai is around 1.2 CR which is really, really huge. I will come up to the breakdown also. But let's start with the process. So how the application process actually look like I applied through three different ways, and through referral, one through Nocrical and one through directly through their portal. Nocrical phase is similar side to Nocrical.com which in India exists. So but I think applied to Nocrical and directly doesn't make sense in by-dance case. But through referral it really worked like it's in a single day recruiter reach out to me. So yeah, once you are screening as you are screening part is done, you will get an interview schedule for recruiter call. It's not a kind of interview. It's kind of like intro between UNHR. They want to know more about yourself. So in this call they will surely talk about your visa status like what's your visa status where did you actually kind of live. Why you want to switch right? What is your current company? What kind of text like you're working on? What is your experience level? How many ESO experience do you have? That I think really matters in by-dance case for SD2 because SD2 is divided into two bands. 2.1 and 2.2. 2.1 is the very initial band of SD2. And do you want to relocate to Dubai or not? Are you flexible and true clearly location or not? And they will surely ask for my little status also, but yeah. Once recruiter actually asked me all this question, I had some few questions about the team and the opening and why did they actually open in by-dance Dubai because they already situated in US and China in every way. So the team is a collaboration between China, US or it is like completely in Dubai. Such kind of questions I had so I really asked them. At this point recruiter informed me a bit about that in which opening that I am applying. The answer is that 3.4 candidates are also applying. But they were two joys either you applying this opening or either you can refer to another team also. But I would like as my resume got screened in this team itself so let's continue with this. This is really important because at the end I would come back to this part again. Okay jumping to the interview process. Once recruiter call is done, they came to know about everything about you. They will schedule the first interview round. Each interview is scheduled separately for me. One by one once you clear. It's kind of you can say screening round each round is a screening round kind of thing. So let's talk about first technical interview round. I would like to call out that all this interviews were actually taken by Chinese folks like they were situated out of Beijing so they were some kind of communication gap were sure there. They were not able to understand my language specifically. I was not able to understand the language though we are speaking English but you know I think you got it right. Yeah so the first five minute away shortly about general intro about their team. The interviewer about me then it's a process in each round of by downs that they will shortly look through your resume. So resume is really really important. Whatever have you written in resume is really important. So I would suggest that thoroughly go to that part. Even your college last year project also matters here. So here once interviewer went through my resume here. He had some specific question about my past experiences in Microsoft about the work that I was working how it was related and about related at shieldy part of that. So you can say it was really similar to an HM round of kind of scenario and it took around 20 minutes approximately. He had like very very deep dive questions into whatever I was speaking. So you can't just bluff in this case so just to be tried to be aware of that once we are done with past experiences and questions on that I was given a coding question which was quite hard. I didn't expect it that only 25 minutes remaining so I will get a hard question but it was a hard so I got a maximal square DP question and it's not going to be a straightforward but I think it's like medium to hard level of kind of problem because due to time constant I feel like it's really hard as per my scenario I gave good for solution to regarding some recursion and all that after that I frame a equation in a DP and I was able to run the code. Most important part here is like you have to run the code that's where the I think non-negotiable for them that's what interviewer informed me and at last I gave time in the space complicity to the interviewer and I think two three minutes were left so I asked a few questions about the bydance and tech mainly specific to the interviewer team. So just for context if you ask any question to interviewer try to frame it to their team because they had pretty much knowledge about their team apart from the whole company itself. And that will be really helpful and that will show interest. Yeah coming to yeah so eventually after this round I was informed by the recruiter through mail that I qualified and second on the schedule. Coming to second out it was similar to first on itself but that was here that instead of asking question related to my resume here interviewer decided to ask some generic questions about computer networking and operating system about what is multi threading and I was very good and go length so they ask about both routines channels right what is difference between rest to JPC web circuit and there were many many discussions about multi threading itself like how concurrency versus parallelism is different right these kind of scenarios and I have to give multiple examples also. So it's kind of a I can say proper discussion where interviewer was also asking more deep question into what I was speaking. So again like if you say you have to prepare computer networking operating system shortly you have to prepare a bit about it if you do know. Coming to once I think 20 25 minutes were done on computer networking again coding question was given to me and it was a word ladder so you can easily find this question on lead code right it's so it's kind of like easy question I would say like easy to medium but the code is very big and here the twist is time is less and again the non-negotiable is you have to run the code. So that was I think due to that time constraint this coding question will come into medium to hard situation right you have to figure out how things will work so it's basically we have to find out the shortest path between the nodes right but eventually I was able to run the code I was able to provide time in space complexity and interviewer was pretty much happy I was not able to ask any question because there was no time left but after a bit of time I was informed by recruiters that I again qualified it was really good round to schedule interviewer and three it was around two weeks time was given to me to prepare most specifically about LLDHLD and other things though recruiters does not inform me about that this round can contain LLDHLD apart from previous experiences I came to know like shortly they can be scenario where LLDHLD can be asked with coding questions and it happened so when I came to interviewer on three again the interviewer was from Beijing China so it was very very difficult for me to communicate properly my thought process so be specific about that I think so overall like they went through my resume and they ask a bit of caution about my past experiences mainly from the current company which was working Microsoft apart from that they started asking LLDHLD question it was writing I think design ticket master so the main idea agenda of this LLD part was I asked specifically do I need to write the code or do I need to only provide the basic high level idea of it so they told like you don't need to write the code for this case you just provide the classes and TDS what are design patterns we need to use and what are the algorithms we can use suppose for in this scenario if two folks are actually booking a single seat which kind of algorithm will decide that whom to appoint a single seat and what type of block are you on a enforcer and what will be the designing part like what is the algorithm or data structure algorithm will be used so SEMA for was I was using SEMA for for locking system but they were I think three to four classes which are built up and told about two three design patterns that we can use here and it was like a pretty intense discussion again but I would say like you again have to be very very thorough about whatever you're speaking if you actually tried to fumble around or maybe try to fake around or you don't have a specific knowledge then pretty sure that you will get cut off here. Yeah after this discussion part was done I was given again coding question which was I think hard number of island of a graph question so it was pretty straightforward I know about it it was a little problem itself so yeah again in two to five minutes you have to provide good for solution you have to write the optimal solution run it for a time in space complexity about I think time part is major factor so you a speed matters a lot here like in every round if you see like a speed matters a lot I think in the last two three minutes we're left so I asked a bit question about to the specific team as interviewer was from data in front side so I asked about how the bydance in fact really works the data lake structures and all data platform all side and was clearly showing the idea that it is really tech heavy company the really use many of the open source product also that what I came to know it was really fascinating to know about it. Yep after completing the interview round three there were I think silence for about for a week from recruit aside I checked with recruited wise but I did not got the response but eventually Richter informed me after I think a couple of weeks that I have qualified round three now it's time for round four so again it was scheduled same scenario as the interviewer was from Beijing same difficulty communication gap was there but it was okay tell now you have to express again again but things will surely be difficult but in this part instead of going to the LLD interview went through some of the actual decoction they were surely questions around my resume and in this part I think they were some question around my some last year fourth year project which I did in college which I eventually did not remember proper but I remember some kind of algorithm that I used I explained whatever I have and it was good like he though he expected to me explain completely into it but I did not remember so I think there was some negative part that he came to know about but yeah eventually we move forward and he asked me a one random question of HLD designed with her feet so if you will see that HLD problem generally take time right and here also it took time because I need to draw a proper boxes and designing and all I have to draw basic design then I have to actually scale it to millions of users how celebrity problem will work on right yep so eventually when I say celebrity problem you have to figure out where fan out read and fan out write will work on right how things will work if in all Elon Musk actually it would and how your feet will get updated comparison to if any of your follower actually it would this some kind of basic scenario in which we deep dive and we discussed a lot about it apart from this the basic part API designing scalable system and all this concurrency you have to eventually figure it out what will DB you have to use you have to talk about it but with the major part what he wants to check about the celebrity problem how I will handle regarding find out return fan out write yeah so it was I think interview was pretty much happy with the HLD part of mine but again 20 minutes or left again I was given a coding question which I didn't even expect it because I thought like it's completely HLD round itself but it was very medium kind of a question I was given maximum sub-array if you know Kenan's algorithm you will be easily able to do it I just rightly asked interviewer can I code directly in optimal solution due to time constraint and he said yes so I completely coded ran it it I think there was one out of compilation error I was able to figure it and I provided time in space complexity and we were good as a groter I think as interviewer was quite strict in this round maybe like it was due to the by-dance a team but eventually I asked if you question about their by-dance a in fine all this thing what an advancement they are doing through a how they are embedding in tick-tock and all kind of scenario so yeah so whatever I would like to say that all interviews will be from different kind of team it's very very rich and that you will get into it from the same team it can happen but yeah ask question related to their team that will actually give you some kind of impression to their head and maybe it can affect your feedback also in positive terms but eventually if you will see all the rounds all the rounds right has same part they were checking resumes right proper end to end past experiences maybe if you are done open source contribution or if you have done some good project in your college right or maybe about your past experiences your resumes really really important whatever world you have written in resume was very very important so be thorough with that coming to the point of HLD LLD competent networking preparation and all everything is needed I think operating system was also asked if you have written LLM part or maybe some generic or thing they will surely do dive into that so don't just write for the sake of clearing resume screening through ETS be thorough with that coming to coding part I think coding part was similarly related to DP graph measurally so I would say like one kid in Selguerthan question was surely asked but apart from that they surely ask around DP graph entry coming to after fourth round like what happened eventually once I cleared fourth round HR interview I should do so I was pretty sure that this round will be very straightforward it will be as you going I will get the offer but what happened they surely started with reviewer asking about some very generic behavioral question I was able to answer through star method right very basic questions but HR informed me that as he early informed me that the openings can close in this team and it happened because they were 3 to 4 candidates who were applying and they actually get the offer and they accepted it now it's difficult for me to actually put that in the same team yes so they eventually asked me to offer to different team and they also HR team also referred to me they're different team so I thought like it will be very straightforward they will not be much difficulty they didn't give me the offer at that point of time because my team was not finalized but they gave me basic about about the pay structure what can be the scenario and this is what they informed base was will be around 95 lag bonus will be around 6 cents stock will be around 12 so total was around 1.2 though it was negotiable but yeah eventually what happened that I got a rejection mail from HR that my resume did not got shortlisted in the new team and this is really crazy that I gave one and half month of my time for preparation for each and every round and eventually I came to know that due to resume not getting shortlisted in different team I'm actually rejected some kind of rejection and they informed me that if they were able to find new team they will surely inform me but till now I was not informed so whatever the dream I had about Dubai and this pay structure ruined but yeah anyway it was really great experience giving rounds of by dance I did not even think that I will get shortlisted so it's kind of interesting talking about the preparation structure for DSA I would say you can just focus on lead code 150 all the questions we had directly from lead code very straightforward so lead code 150 is enough try to identify patterns right do questions repeatedly of 150 itself don't go anywhere else just focus on DP graph tree or maybe some popular algorithm of arrays right striking queue that will be pretty much I think 150 questions are enough lead code 150 is enough main focus is on about your thought versus how you are able to figure out the code speed matters a lot so practice a lot by setting a timer so yeah talking about the LLD um LLD is like little bit hard if you haven't prepared before that you should know about design patterns how to actually create you MLTRI ground right how to write entities classes and all that I would say go to charge deputy learn as much as you can consider charge deputy as your mentor for LLD and ask about top 10 design patterns ask about how to actually create a you MLTRI algorithm for design book my show design fitter or maybe any other problem statement and then try to ask more and more questions through charge deputy that's how I learned I did not refer to any of the other resources as such uh if you want to learn more about in the bookish manner I think design patterns refactoring guru is one of the best books or maybe blogs we have so you can refer to that coming to actually um I think medium preparation will shortly work here though again speed matters here you have you don't have much time to actually think before answering they were focusing on multiple approaches shortly so it matters a lot suppose designing a Twitter feed if you don't know about fan out read and fan out right you are gone so try to go through many of the resources here maybe Alex's system design part one is really great start system design primer reports again a great start try to watch random youtube videos based on whatever questions they are asking in any of the interview experiences right um designed with our designs or my design book my show right design URL short now I click aggregate uh in many other like there are I think twenty-five problems I have also created one of the best sheet existing with my own experiences and I put down in top met so you can check it out um and yeah do a lot of practice and there is a proper format on how we can practice I also put down in my system design sheet I will also put down in 20 25 system design problems in that sheet how to actually answer um what should be the preparation strategy for fresh air SD one SD two I everything put down in my system design sheet so do check it out so again do a lot of practice as much as possible setting a timer right going deep dive in any of the problem that you are solving maybe do walk interview by yourself that will be really really great but eventually you have to practice a lot more two speed of the process yeah I think that's pretty much about the preparation strategy I think if you like the video do share with your friends right subscribe to the channel it will really help me a lot and make the youtube power happy yeah see you in another interview experience and take more videos Scotty are signing off